The Joe Rogan experience.
We should probably talk about your book. Let's do it. Yeah, let's do it. Um,
the way it opens is very,
so we should tell people that you we're like really.
Transitioning. Yes. Why not? No, I.
Love it. We, we should tell people you're from Pittsburgh. Yeah.
And you did your bat mitzvah. Mm-hmm <affirmative> at the temple.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> where the Pittsburgh shooter. Yeah. And so that was like,
just tell people. Sure.
So I grew up in squirrel hill, um,
which is like pretty much down the street from Mr. Rogers.
Like it was quite literally Mr. Rogers neighborhood he's from there. And, uh,
it was an amazing place to grow up. I became a, but Mitzva 1997.
Uh, and it happened at tree of life.
I actually was a member of a different synagogue called Beth Shalom,
but there had been this fire. And so all of the kids who were becoming a bar,
but Mitzva that year did it at tree of life. Um, and you know,
and this same way that people think about nine 11 as a date, I think about also
October 27th, 2018,
because that morning I was in Arizona to give a speech to a group.
And I looked at my phone around 10 in the morning to like my family,
WhatsApp chat. And my youngest sister had just said,
there's a shooter at tree of life.
And my thought immediately went to my day ad because my dad is kind of what we
think of as like a promiscuous Jew. Like he goes to different synagogues. He,
you know, pays membership dues at various ones.
He likes the sermons at one and the, you know, the, the scotch at another.
And, uh, I thought that there was a good possibility that he was there. Um,
thank God he was not there. Um, but my mom and wrote back, you know,
we're gonna know people there and my dad knew most of the people,
11 people were killed. It was the most, um,
lethal antisemitic attack in all of American history. Um,
I knew several of the people that were killed. Um, and I ended up,
I was supposed to actually go to Israel the next day on a reporting trip to
report on this fascinating or archeological dig.
But I ended up putting that trip off,
doing that story later and just spending the week, um,
to see what happened, what happens to a community when,
when something like this goes down,
because like we read about mass shootings all the time, right.
So much so that they become kind of an abstraction. And I, you know,
I don't report on this stuff. So I had never born witness to what unfolds. Um,
and it was, it was a really transformative week and I write this in the book,
but I feel like in retrospect,
I had spent my life on a kind of holiday from history. Um,
both because I was, you know, I'm a Jew of postwar era,
which is to say the I'm part of the luckiest diaspora in all of Jewish
history. Like the Jews,
since the end of world war II in this country have had it better than we've ever
had it ever before. Um,
and all of the kind of mythology about what America could be,
the idea that it's a shining city on a hill, the idea that it's a new Jerusalem,
like I was raised on those ideas.
And even though antisemitic things happened to me,
like speaking of Catholic school,
like I would wait for the school bus to my Jewish day school with my sister.
And there was this Catholic school bus that would drive by and they would
scream, you know, Chis and dirty Jews and wear your horns.
And I remember in high school people,
someone telling me to pick up pennies like things happened,
but it all kind of like didn't register.
It really rolled off my back because I saw those as like vestiges from an
earlier and uglier time.
Like something that those people should be embarrassed about thing that said
anything about me. And, you know, even after Pittsburgh though,
I was kind of like,
you could still delude yourself into thinking like this is a one off.
It shouldn't change, you know,
the fundamental Jewish American assessment of our experience here and our place
of belonging here. But then six months later to the,
to the day there's another white supremacist attack on a synagogue in paua
California. Um, and then we've had, you know,
we've had this rash of violent anti-Semitic attacks happening in the New York
area, which I hope will talk about. Um, but you know,
it's weird because I grew up in very political family. Like my mom,
my dad's a cons political conservative. My mom's a liberal,
we're obsessed with politics. We were always talking about politics and,
and we're always talking about like, Jews, right?
Like we're really proudly Jewish family.
And so it wasn't that I thought antisemitism had died. Like I was,
you know,
I watched anti SEM as it was sort of resurging in countries
like France and England in Western Europe.
But I sort of looked at all of that with a,
with some level of distance and maybe even a little condescension,
like we are sort of inoculated from that disease in America, America,
singular America is sort of separate from the tragedy of so much of due history.
Um, and I have to say that, like, it sounds naive,
but I was sort of shocked to see it, um, that it's here too,
you know, and that we haven't escaped from it. Um, and I mean, that,
that awakening happened a little bit before Pittsburgh, which is it happened?
Um, I think it was April 20. You'll correct me.
When was the Charlottes film March? Remember the unite, the right March,
Jamie you'll find out, but I remember being shocked right?
When those people were marching and they were shouting blood and soil,
like Blaton Bowden,
which is a Nazi slogan and the Jew will not replace us exactly. Right.
And the Jew will not replace us. And when I heard the Jew,
yeah, sorry, August, 2017. When I heard Jew, like the Jews will not replace us.
Right. I heard it in like the plain meaning of that phrase.
Like the Jew is not gonna take my job.
The Jew is not gonna like take my job in the corner office or whatever. Um,
but in fact, it was like a reflection of this replacement theory ideology,
which is that brown people and black people and Muslims and immigrants are
coming to replace our white civilization. And the, the,
the Jews job is basically to pass as a white person. But in fact,
do the bidding of these people that we deem to be not pure. Where,
where does that come from? That is a deeply,
deeply ancient antisemitic conspiracy theory, right?
It's the idea of, let's go back to the new, the new Testament.
Let's go back to, to Jesus. Right. What happens in that story?
The story there is that the Jews go to
Pius pilot and say, you know, like this person's unacceptable to us.
And in the mythology of that story,
the Jews get what was then the most powerful empire in the world,
the empire to do their bidding. And you have this line in the book of Matthew.
That is so, so I mean, the,
the bloodiness of this line cannot be quantified where he says, you know,
his blood beyond us and on our children, which goes, you know,
down through the centuries to justify the killing of, of Jew of, you know,
untold numbers of Jews,
but the idea of the Jew as sort of like the wily manipulator as
the Jew, as having proximity to power, not being in power,
but being able to sort of be the puppet master, pulling the levers of power,
you see that play out in lots of different iterations through time. Right?
You see it. Um,
I'm trying to think about useful examples for your listeners, but,
but that is sort of the trope, right? And it is, uh,
an ancient one, but it's being utilized in really new ways. Um,
so it's not literally that the Jew is gonna replace us.
That is that the Jew who the Jew in a way is sort of like the greatest
trick the devil has ever played.
And this is the language of Eric Ward who wrote this amazing essay called skin
in the game. And he talks, he's an, he's a black anti-racist activist.
And he talks about figuring out how anti-Semitism is kind of the linchpin of
white supremacy, because the Jew appears to be what white,
but in fact, he's not white. I mean, this is all based on this lie.
That race is not a social con. That race is not a construct, right.
It's which it is. Um, but they're saying that the Jew is not white,
but he appears to be white. But in fact,
he's loyal to these people who are coming to SU America.
And so when you have someone like Congressman Steve king saying,
we replace our civilization with someone else's babies, like,
what does that mean? What is that idea?
It is so deeply anti-American because the idea of America, right,
is the idea that Americanness is not about bloodline.
Americanness is about a shared set of values and ideas and field to,
to those ideas. So the idea that someone else is, what does that mean?
You know, well,
it doesn't make any sense because this entire country is based on immigrants.
Of course. And, you know, as we talked about with the native Americans, I mean,
you wanna, we have replaced our country mean we we've,
we've taken over their country. Mm-hmm, <affirmative> theirs first.